post: Git rebase edit (#117)
cloudx-labs/posts: posts/navarroaxel/20.git-rebase-edit.md

---
title: A step-by-step guide to splitting commits using Git rebase
published: true
description: Learn why and how to split commits to keep your Git history clean and organized. Whether you're backporting hotfixes or simply aiming for more readable commit history, this step-by-step guide has got you covered.
tags: 'git, bash, productivity, tooling'
cover_image: ./assets/git-rebase-edit.png
id: 2015782
---

In the previous posts we checked how to use the [`git rebase --interactive`](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-rebase#Documentation/git-rebase.txt---interactive) and how to squash your commits using the `fixup` command in the `git-rebase-todo` file.

> Now, we're going to see how to split commits using the terminal. But why split a commit? Well, this is a way to organize your work, maybe you need to rearrange your changes to make the backport of hotfixes to old released versions easier, probably using `git cherry-pick`. Let's see!

Author: ```suggestion
Now, we're going to learn how to split commits using the terminal. But why split a commit? This helps organize your work. For instance, you may need to rearrange your changes to make backporting hotfixes to older released versions easier, likely using `git cherry-pick`. Let’s dive in!
```

> Now, we're going to learn how to split commits using the terminal. But why split a commit? This helps organize your work. For instance, you may need to rearrange your changes to make backporting hotfixes to older released versions easier, likely using `git cherry-pick`. Let’s dive in!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, we're going to learn how to split commits using the terminal. But why splitting a commit? This helps to organize your work. For instance, you may need to rearrange your changes to make backporting hotfixes to older released versions easier, likely using `git cherry-pick`. Let’s dive in!
```

Use either verb nominalization or a preposition

> Now, we're going to learn how to split commits using the terminal. But why split a commit? This helps organize your work. For instance, you may need to rearrange your changes to make backporting hotfixes to older released versions easier, likely using `git cherry-pick`. Let’s dive in!

Reviewer: Backporting hotfixes??? Wouldn't it be 
```suggestion
Now, we're going to learn how to split commits using the terminal. But why split a commit? This helps organize your work. For instance, you may need to rearrange your changes to make backport hotfixes to older released versions easier, likely using `git cherry-pick`. Let’s dive in!
```

## Splitting commits

You can use `git rebase` to split your commits. There are several alternatives to do it and we're going to check the `git rebase --interactive` way. You can use `git rebase --interactive main` to reapply all your new commits to the top of the `main` branch, or just `git rebase --interactive HEAD~2` to apply the latest 2 commits.

```text
pick 0680aa7 fix header responsiveness
exec npm test
edit 68ab202 fix grid responsiveness and upgrade bootstrap
exec npm test
break
```

💡 You can `pick` the rebased commits in any order! but this can cause Git conflicts 😞. Also you can `pick` commits from other branches like [`git cherry-pick`](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-cherry-pick).

> Well, Git will `pick` the commit `0680aa7` as-is and run `npm test` and if the command exists successfully then Git will pick the commit `68ab202` and break returning the control of the shell to you allowing to `edit` this last commit. Let's see how to edit the last commit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Well, Git will `pick` the commit `0680aa7` as-is and run `npm test` and if the command exists then Git will pick the commit `68ab202` and break, returning the control of the shell to you allowing to `edit` this last commit. Let's see how to edit the last commit.
```

> 🧠 To make it clear: `edit` takes the changes from a specific commit without committing it, you are allowed to edit theses changes and then you must commit it manually using the `git commit` command.

Author: ```suggestion
🧠 To clarify: `edit` stops after applying the commit, so that you can edit the files or the commit message, amend the commit, and continue rebasing.
```

First, undo it keeping all the changes in the working tree using the following command:

```bash
git reset HEAD^
```

Now, you are able to make any edition to your code. Then you can use `git add` to add the changes to the index to commit it in parts splitting the original commit. As the following example shows:

```bash
git add package.json package-lock.json
git commit -m 'upgrade bootstrap'
git add .
git commit -m 'fix grid responsiveness'
git rebase --continue
```

> Git will continue running the second `exec` command that makes an `npm test`, if this fails you need to fix your code, otherwise Git will continue with the `break` command returning the control of the shell to you again. Here you are able to run your application, make the final checks, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Git will continue running the second `exec` command that makes an `npm test`. If this fails you will need to fix your code; otherwise Git will continue with the `break` command returning the control of the shell to you again. Here you are able to run your application, make the final checks, etc.
```

"Continue with the `break` command" sounds weird

> If you like the changes just run `git rebase --continue` to finish the rebase, or `git rebase --abort` if you want to cancel all these changes. 👀

Author: ```suggestion
If you're happy with the changes, run `git rebase --continue` to finish the rebase, or `git rebase --abort` to cancel all changes. 👀
```

Let me know in the comments 👇 what other method you prefer to split or edit commits.

## Conclusion

> Remember that it's useful to keep your commits small and semantic, making atomic changes make it easier to check where a crazy bug was introduced. Split commits is an easy to use tool and helps you to keep your Git history more readable. Remember, more commits is not an issue if they are small and semantic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember that it's useful to keep your commits small and semantic. Commiting atomic changes makes it easier to check where a crazy bug was introduced. Splitting commits is an easy way to use tool and helps you to keep your Git history more readable. Remember, more commits is not an issue if they are small and semantic.
```

Reviewer: Please review this paragraph. What "tool" are we talking about? "more commits is not an issue..." lacks the verb (or its [nominalization](https://poorvucenter.yale.edu/sites/default/files/files/Nominalizations_1.pdf))

Author: ```suggestion
Remember that it's useful to keep your commits small and semantic. Commiting atomic changes makes it easier to check where a crazy bug was introduced. Splitting commits is an easy process to perform and helps you to keep your Git history more readable. Remember, more commits is not an issue if they are small and semantic.
```
